 
 
www.afnic.fr | contact@afnic.fr 
Afnic Naming Policy 
Rules for registering top-level Internet domains using 
country-codes for mainland France and the Overseas 
Departments and Territories 
Version dated 6 July 2026  
 

 
2 
Afnic Naming Policy - Version of 6 July 2026 
CONTENTS 
Preamble  .............. 5 
Chapter 1 - General  .............. 6 
Article 1.1 - Purpose ................................ ................................ ............... 6 
1.2 - Components ................................ ................................ ................... 7 
1.3 - Enforceability ................................ ................................ ................. 7 
Chapter 2 - Rules relating to domain name  .............. 9 
Article 2.1 - Domain categories ................................ ..............................  9 
Article 2.2 - Syntax rules ................................ ................................ ......... 9 
Article 2.3 - “First Come, First Served” principle ................................ ... 10 
Article 2.4 - Domain Names subject to prior review .............................  10 
Article 2.5 - The “gouv.fr” TLD ................................ ..............................  14 
Article 2.6 - Domain names reserved for the Registry ..........................  15 
Article 2.7 - Right to the domain name ................................ ................ 15 
Article 2.8 - Domain name validity period ................................ ............ 16 
Article 2.9 - Remuneration of the Registry ................................ ........... 17 
Chapter 3 - Registry  ............ 18 
Article 3.1 - Role of the Registry ................................ ...........................  18 
Article 3.2 - Powers of the Registry ................................ ...................... 19 
Article 3.3 - Responsibility of the Registry ................................ ............ 21 
Chapter 4 - Registrars  ............ 23 
 
3 
Afnic Naming Policy - Version of 6 July 2026 
Article 4.1 - Role of registrars ................................ ...............................  23 
Article 4.2 - Accreditation of registrars ................................ ................. 23 
Article 4.3 - Responsibility of registrars ................................ ................ 24 
Chapter 5 - Rules relating to the holder of the domain name
  25 
Article 5.1 - Eligibility of the holder of a domain name ......................... 25 
Article 5.2 - Administrative and technical contact ................................  26 
Article 5.3 - Responsibility of the holder ................................ .............. 27 
Chapter 6 – Operations on a domain name  ............ 28 
Article 6.1 - Locking of a domain name ................................ ................ 28 
Article 6.2 - Suspension of a domain name ................................ .......... 28 
Article 6.3 - Blocking of a domain name ................................ ............... 29 
Article 6.4 - Voluntary transfer ................................ .............................  30 
Article 6.5 - Compulsory transfer ................................ ......................... 30 
Article 6.6 - Change of registrar ................................ ............................  32 
Article 6.7 - Orphan domain names ................................ ...................... 32 
Article 6.8 - Deletion of a domain name ................................ ............... 33 
  
 
4 
Afnic Naming Policy - Version of 6 July 2026 
Chapter 7 - Dispute resolution  ............ 35 
Article 7.1 - Legal proceedings ................................ .............................  35 
Article 7.2 - Alternative Dispute Resolution procedures ....................... 37 
Chapter 8 - Personal data and information  ............ 38 
Article 8.1 - Confidentiality ................................ ................................ ... 38 
Article 8.2 - “Whois” database ................................ .............................  38 
Article 8.3 - Personal data ................................ ................................ .... 40 
Article 8.4 - Restricted publication ................................ ....................... 41 
Chapter 9 - Other provisions  ............ 43 
Article 9.1 - Agreement on evidence ................................ .................... 43 
Article 9.2 - Language ................................ ................................ ........... 43 
Article 9.3 - Governing law ................................ ................................ ... 43 
Article 9.4 - Force majeure ................................ ................................ ... 44 
Article 9.5 - Intellectual property ................................ ......................... 44 
Chapter 10 – Transitional provisions  ............ 45 
  
 
5 
Afnic Naming Policy - Version of 6 July 2026 
Preamble 
1. It is hereby stated that this Policy has been adopted pursuant to:  
- The French Post and Electronic Communications Code (CPCE);  
- The government decree appointing Afnic dated 1 July2022;  
- The rules for the alternative dispute resolution procedures as approved by Order of 
the French Minister of State for the Digital Sector dated 14 March 2016;  
- The agreement between the French State and Afnic;  
- The registration agreements signed by and between Afnic and accredited 
registrars. 
2. Domain names are assigned and managed in the general interest in accordance with 
rules that are non-discriminatory and transparent, ensuring respect for freedom of 
communication, entrepreneurial freedom and intellectual property rights. 
 
6 
Afnic Naming Policy - Version of 6 July 2026 
Chapter 1 - General 
Article 1.1 - Purpose 
3. This naming policy sets out the conditions for the allocation and management of 
domain names, centralised by Afnic in its capacity as Registry, namely: 
.fr Mainland France and Corsica  
.re Réunion  
.yt Mayotte  
.pm Saint Pierre and Miquelon  
.wf Wallis and Futuna  
.tf French Southern and Antarctic Territories  
4. Unless otherwise stipulated, this naming policy applies to any new TLD centralised by 
Afnic.  
5. This naming policy does not apply to top-level domain names other than those 
provided for in this article, in particular:  
✓ Other country-code top-level domain names (ccTLDs);  
✓ Other generic top-level domain names (gTLDs);  
✓ Other domain names for which Afnic may assume the role of back-end registry. 
 
7 
Afnic Naming Policy - Version of 6 July 2026 
1.2 - Components 
6. The Afnic Naming Policy comprises:  
✓ This document;  
✓ The dispute resolution policy for French Internet domains;  
✓ The rules for the alternative dispute resolution procedures;  
✓ The Mediation rules; 
✓ The policy on publication of and access to information concerning .fr TLD 
registrations; 
✓ The accreditation policy for registrars. 
1.3 - Enforceability  
7. Any person requesting the intervention of Afnic in its capacity as Registry is deemed to 
have read the terms of the Afnic Naming Policy. 
8. The Naming Policy is published on Afnic’s website at the address www.afnic.fr 
9. Afnic's Naming Policy is a living document updated to reflect improveme nts, work and 
agreements between its members and partners. 
10. The enforceable version of the Afnic Naming Policy is that available on the Afnic 
website and indicated as the version in force on the date of receipt by its departments 
of the registration request. 
 
8 
Afnic Naming Policy - Version of 6 July 2026 
11. Should the policy be modified, the new version shall be immediately applicable:  
✓ to all new domain names;  
✓ to existing domain names should: 
o a request for administrative action be made; 
o they be renewed. 
12. Unless otherwise stipulated by legislation, by decision of the Ministry for Electronic 
Communications or by a decision of the Board of Trustees, new rules shall be 
applicable forthwith and not retroactively.  
13. New provisions will first be notified on the Afnic website and sent directly to registrars 
so that they can inform their domain name holders of the said amendments.  
14. Operation requests sent to Afnic in any form whatsoever, and payment of any fees 
arising from the performance of such operations, shall be considered to be a simple 
reiteration of the applicant's acceptance of this Naming Policy.  
  
 
9 
Afnic Naming Policy - Version of 6 July 2026 
Chapter 2 - Rules relating to domain name 
Article 2.1 - Domain categories 
15. Any decisions to create or delete domain categories are taken by Afnic’s governing 
bodies in coordination with the consultative committees. 
16. If domain names are still active within a given domain category, that category may 
only be deleted after giving the domain name holders affected by this deletion six (6) 
months’ notice to change their domain names.  
Article 2.2 - Syntax rules 
17. ASCII domain names consist only of alphanumeric characters, i.e. the letters of the 
Latin alphabet, the digits 0 to 9 and the hyphen “-”. (for example: ecole-123.fr). 
18. “International” or “internationalised” domain names (IDN) consist of characters other 
than ASCII characters alone. 
19. The following alphanumeric characters are accepted for use in domain names: a, à, á, 
â, ã, ä, å, æ, b, c, ç, d, e, è, é, ê, ë, f, g, h, i, ì, í, î, ï, j, k, l, m, n, ñ, o, ò, ó, ô, õ, ö, œ, p, q, r, s, t, u, 
ù, ú, û, ü, v, w, x, y, ý, ÿ, z, ß, 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, - (hyphen; minus sign) 
20. ASCII and IDN domain names that fall under the following criteria cannot be registered:  
✓ begin or end with a hyphen “-”; 
✓ more than 63 characters in length; 
 
10 
Afnic Naming Policy - Version of 6 July 2026 
✓ consist of the “-” (hyphen) in the third and fourth position, except for ASCII-
encoded versions in which the label is prefixed with “xn--”. 
21. The registration of domain names containing 1 and 2 numeric and/or alphabetic 
characters is not authorised for the following country codes for mainland  France and 
the Overseas Departments and Territories: .pm, .re, .tf, .wf, .yt 
Article 2.3 - “First Come, First Served” 
principle  
22. Except where provisions to the contrary are made for certain domain names, and 
subject to the provisions of the French Post and Electronic Communications Code, 
operation requests sent to Afnic by registrars are handled on a “first come, first served” 
basis, meaning that they are processed by chronological order of receipt.  
Article 2.4 - Domain Names subject to prior 
review 
23. Afnic establishes and keeps up to date a list of domain names for which registration is 
subject to prior review.  
24. The list is available on the Afnic website. 
25. This list is a living document and applicants should familiarise themselves with it, it 
being understood that the list published online is not exhaustive given that the 
publication of some of these terms may offend certain members of the public.  
 
11 
Afnic Naming Policy - Version of 6 July 2026 
26. For this type of domain name, the registrar sends Afnic the necessary supporting 
documents beforehand to ensure that the applicant is entitled to register the domain 
name in question and that it is compliant with the provisions of the French Post and 
Electronic Communications Code. 
27. In order to register a term subject to prior review, the applicant must ensure that th e 
domain name: 
✓ is not liable to disrupt public order or morality, or the rights guaranteed by the 
French Constitution or French law; 
✓ is not liable to infringe intellectual property rights or personal rights or is not 
identical or similar to that of the French Republic, a local authority or grouping of 
local authorities or a national or local institution or public service unless the 
applicant provides proof of a legitimate interest and is acting in good faith.  
28. The provisions of the French Post and Electronic Communications Code are applied to 
characterise the existence of a “legitimate interest” and “bad faith”.  
29. When considering the application, Afnic reserves the right to request any supporting 
evidence or documents it considers necessary. 
30. If the review is successful, Afnic sends an authorisation code to the registrar, enabling it 
to register the said domain name. 
31. In the event of any dispute, the “Legal proceedings” article shall be applied.  
32. The voluntary transfer of a domain name subject to prior review can only occur after 
the new holder has obtained authorisation from Afnic to do so under the same 
conditions. 
 
12 
Afnic Naming Policy - Version of 6 July 2026 
33. Deletion of a domain name subject to prior review entails its reinstatement on the 
original list. 
34. Similarly, the domain names governed by the naming convention below are subject to 
prior review under the same conditions:  
  
 
13 
Afnic Naming Policy - Version of 6 July 2026 
Domain name Recommended use Supporting documents 
agglo-name.tld 
"name" is the name of the 
metropolitan area authority  
Metropolitan area authority  Identifier in the SIRENE 
enterprise directory 
cc-name.tld 
"name" is the officially 
declared name of the 
community of municipal 
authorities 
Community of municipal 
authorities  
Identifier in the SIRENE 
enterprise directory  
cg-xx.tld 
"xx" is the number or name of 
the officially declared 
department  
General councils  Identifier in the SIRENE 
enterprise directory 
cr-name.tld  
"name" is the officially 
declared name of the 
regional council 
Regional councils Identifier in the SIRENE 
enterprise directory 
 
14 
Afnic Naming Policy - Version of 6 July 2026 
mairie-name.tld and ville-
name.tld  
"name" is the officially 
declared name of the 
municipality  
Municipalities  Identifier in the SIRENE 
enterprise directory 
Article 2.5 - The “gouv.fr” TLD 
35. The .gouv.fr TLD and its IDN versions are reserved for the French government.  
36. The following supporting documents are required to receive the necessary 
authorisation code: 
✓ An identifier for the SIRENE database or other official document allowing the entity 
to be identified and, 
✓ The approval of the Government Information Service (GIS). 
37. In view of their similarity to the “.gouv.fr” TLD, registration of domain names ending in “-
gouv.fr” and their IDN versions is prohibited. 
 
15 
Afnic Naming Policy - Version of 6 July 2026 
Article 2.6 - Domain names reserved for the 
Registry 
38. In order to carry out its duties, the following terms are reserved for Afnic and therefore 
cannot be registered: 
fr nic www 
web w3 whois 
office-d-enregistrement officedenregistrement office-enregistrement 
officeenregistrement officenregistrement asso 
tm gouv com 
39. Nor can the following domain names be registered: fr.fr, re.fr, pm.fr, yt.fr, tf.fr, wf.fr, nc.fr, 
pf.fr, mf.fr, bl.fr, gp.fr, mq.fr, gf.fr, co.fr or nh.fr and their IDN versions. 
40. This list can be expanded in the light of legal, regulatory or technical changes to 
naming. 
Article 2.7 - Right to the domain name 
41. Holders own the registered domain name throughout its validity period in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the Naming Policy. The performance of their duties 
does not grant Afnic or the registrar any intellectual property rights to the domain 
names they manage. 
42. This article does not mean that, in the event of failure to comply with the terms of the 
naming policy, the holder of the domain name cannot be deprived of the domain 
 
16 
Afnic Naming Policy - Version of 6 July 2026 
name or of its use in accordance with the legal and constitutional provisions and in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of this Naming Policy.  
43. Closed for registration on 15 March 2013, the domain names under the naming zones 
.tm.fr, .asso.fr, .asso.re, .com.fr and .com.re are maintained;  
44. For these domain names, however: 
✓ only applications for operations in accordance with this Policy will be accepted 
✓ only qualification operations concerning the reachability and the existence of the 
holder will be carried out.  
45. The same applies to domain names registered under the .tf and .w f TLDs. 
Article 2.8 - Domain name validity period 
46. The domain name has a validity period of between one (1) year and ten (10) years as 
of its registration.  
47. The duration of the validity period varies according to the option chosen by the holder 
with the registrar in charge of the operation. 
48. The renewal of the domain name is implied unless a request for its deletion is sent by 
the registrar. 
 
17 
Afnic Naming Policy - Version of 6 July 2026 
Article 2.9 - Remuneration of the Registry 
49. Afnic applies a single fee for all billable operations carried out by registrars on domain 
names. Any fee changes will come into effect after public consultation and a vote by 
the Afnic Board of Trustees, both organised at least six (6) months prior to the said 
changes, after informing the French State and in accordance with the arrangeme nts 
set out in Article 7 of the State-Afnic Agreement in force. 
50. These costs are public information and can be consulted on the Afnic website.  
51. Registrars remain free to fix their own service prices but are required to make them 
public. 
52. Invoices are sent to and paid by the registrar. 
53. Operation request costs are due once the operation is finalised by Afnic.  
54. It should be noted, however, that the cost of registration is due to Afnic regardless of 
the outcome of the holder substantiation procedure. 
55. Afnic shall not be held liable for any non-payment of its services by the registrar with 
an impact on the administration of the domain name. Any complaints and/or claims 
arising therefrom shall be exclusively between the registrar and its customer.  
  
 
18 
Afnic Naming Policy - Version of 6 July 2026 
Chapter 3 - Registry  
Article 3.1 - Role of the Registry 
56. Domain names are allocated by Afnic, through registrars. For the duration of its 
assigned duties, Afnic is prohibited from operating as a registrar for domain names; 
hence why domain name operation requests cannot be sent directly to Afnic.  
57. Afnic establishes non-discriminatory and transparent rules that guarantee freedom of 
communication, freedom of enterprise and intellectual property rights.  
58. Afnic does not conduct any due diligence of applications for registration, with the 
exception of those relating to the terms subject to prior review as provided by this 
naming policy. 
59. Afnic does not research any pre-existing rights to verify if the term chosen is available 
or if a third party may assert a right of any kind over it.  
60. Afnic makes available on its website an easily accessible mechanism allowing any 
person to bring to Afnic’s attention a domain name considered to be unlawful or 
contrary to public order.  
61. Reports are made under the sole responsibility of their author, without prejudice to the 
right of Afnic to inform the competent public authorities.  
62. Making a report does not constitute a dispute resolution procedure.  
 
19 
Afnic Naming Policy - Version of 6 July 2026 
63. The provisions of this Policy which allow Afnic to monitor or make checks shall not be 
construed as a duty of care or supervision nor as a performance obligation incumbent 
on Afnic, but simply as permitting it to undertake such activities.  
Article 3.2 - Powers of the Registry  
64. The French Post and Electronic Communications Code does not confer Afnic with the 
power to: 
✓ Carry out general checks on the validity or legality of the choice of terms requested 
on registration;   
✓ Check the legality or compliance of the supporting documents submitted by 
applicants that form the basis of their application for registration or other operations 
(“Kbis” Trade & Companies Register extract, receipt from the French National Institute 
of Industrial Property - INPI, or the Prefecture, etc.). 
Nonetheless, Afnic reserves the right to enlist accredited third parties in  case of any doubt 
in order to confirm the legality or compliance of these supporting documents.  
65. Afnic may carry out checks as part of its qualification operations to ensure the 
eligibility and/or reachability of the holder of the domain name. This qualifi cation 
procedure comprises two (2) distinct processes, namely the verification process and 
the substantiation process. 
66. The verification process is initiated in several cases: 
✓ At the initiative of Afnic; 
 
20 
Afnic Naming Policy - Version of 6 July 2026 
✓ Further to a report by a third party by means of the verification form available on the 
Afnic website; 
✓ At the initiative of the registrar. 
67. The verification process has no effect on the domain name holder’s portfolio.  
68. The substantiation process is initiated in several cases: 
✓ At the initiative of Afnic; 
✓ After a verification highlighting the implausible nature of the eligibility data and/or 
the reachability of the holder; 
✓ When the verification after a report proves to be unsuccessful;  
✓ As a result of a duly substantiated complaint from a third party by mean s of the 
verification form available on the Afnic website; this request is made to Afnic with 
supporting documentation. 
69. When the substantiation process is initiated, Afnic sends the registrar a substantiation 
request and informs the holder and the third party of same. Concomitantly, Afnic 
suspends the portfolio of the holder of the domain name for a maximum period of 
seven (7) days. 
✓ If, after this maximum period of seven (7) days, there is no evidence to conclude 
that the holder complies with the eligibility and reachability rules, Afnic informs the 
registrar, the holder and the third party and blocks the holder's portfolio for a 
maximum period of thirty (30) days. 
 
21 
Afnic Naming Policy - Version of 6 July 2026 
✓ If, after this maximum period of thirty (30) days, there is no evidence to conclude 
that the holder complies with the eligibility and reachability rules, Afnic informs the 
registrar, the holder and the third party and deletes the holder’s portfolio.  
70. When the substantiation process is initiated by Afnic upon registration of a domain 
name, Afnic sends the registrar a substantiation request and informs the holder of 
same. Concomitantly, Afnic suspends the publication of the domain name in the DNS 
for a maximum period of seven (7) days. 
✓ If, after this maximum period of seven (7) days, there is no eviden ce to conclude 
that the holder complies with the eligibility and reachability rules, Afnic informs the 
registrar and the holder and blocks the holder's portfolio for a maximum period of 
thirty (30) days. 
✓ If, after this maximum period of thirty (30) days, there is no evidence to conclude 
that the holder complies with the eligibility and reachability rules, Afnic informs the 
registrar and the holder and deletes the holder’s portfolio.  
71. The situation can be rectified at any time by sending supporting evidence, in which 
case, Afnic closes the current procedure and informs the holder and the third party.  
Article 3.3 - Responsibility of the Registry  
72. Pursuant to the French Post and Electronic Communications Code, a domain name is 
registered under the responsibility of the applicant; hence Afnic cannot be held liable 
by virtue of the registration and/or use of a domain name, nor for any direct or indirect 
damage caused by same. 
 
22 
Afnic Naming Policy - Version of 6 July 2026 
73. Similarly, a domain name is registered on the basis of statements made by the 
applicant; for this reason, Afnic cannot be held liable for any erroneous, false, or 
misleading information or omissions in the Whois database.  
74. Furthermore, Afnic is bound by a best-efforts obligation only with regard to “Whois”, 
and cannot be held liable for any temporary inability to access the database, or for 
modifications or deletions to the same caused by a force majeure, unforeseeable 
circumstances, fraud, or when it has been provided with incorrect information.  
75. Afnic solely has a right of use of the “Whois” database, the French State remaining the 
holder of all the rights to the database. However, Afnic reserves the right to initiate any 
proceedings of any nature whatsoever to protect the “Whois” database against 
fraudulent use. 
76. Pursuant to the French Post and Electronic Communications Code, it is stated that 
domain names are allocated by the Registry, through the intermediary of registrars. 
Consequently, Afnic may not be considered to be an “intermediary” or playing such a 
role, and cannot be held liable for any relations of whatever kind between the registrar 
and its customers (applicants or holders). 
77. These provisions do not preclude the possibility of Afnic contacting the holder and/or 
the administrative contact of a domain name in the special cases mentioned in the 
Naming Policy (e.g. alternative dispute resolution procedures, orphan domain names, 
etc.). 
78. Afnic may in no way be held liable for any relations whatsoever between the domain 
name holder and the administrative contact. 
  
 
23 
Afnic Naming Policy - Version of 6 July 2026 
Chapter 4 - Registrars 
Article 4.1 - Role of registrars 
79. Operation requests sent to Afnic are required to be processed by a registrar, which 
acts as an intermediary between the applicant or holder and Afnic.  
80. The term “registrar” refers to legal persons (corporate entities) duly accredited by Afnic 
and which, as part of a registration agreement concluded with Afni c, provide 
registration services for domain names. 
81. Natural and legal persons wishing to register a domain name or make any change to a 
domain name must choose a registrar from among the accredited registrars on a list 
kept up to date by Afnic on its website. 
82. For each request, the registrar provides Afnic with the items of information required to 
process the said request. 
Article 4.2 - Accreditation of registrars 
83. Any person wishing to act as a registrar for domain names encompassed within the 
scope of the duties assigned to Afnic must be accredited for each top -level domain in 
question.  
84. This accreditation is issued by Afnic in accordance with non-discriminatory and 
transparent rules published on the Afnic website. 
 
24 
Afnic Naming Policy - Version of 6 July 2026 
85. The purpose of accreditation is to ensure that the registrar meets the obligations 
stipulated by the French Post and Electronic Communications Code.  
86. Accreditation is issued by Afnic on the sole basis of information provided by the 
registrars. 
87. Accreditation cannot therefore be construed as a guarantee or seal of quality 
regarding the activities of the registry.  
Article 4.3 - Responsibility of registrars 
88. The registrar has sole responsibility for:  
✓ the relationship it has with its customers;  
✓ any third party claims in respect of one or more domain names;  
✓ the correct technical processing of the operation request to be sent to Afnic, the 
entry of the data corresponding to the holder’s choices, especially in t erms of 
personal data, and for the forwarding of those data to Afnic;  
✓ fulfilling requests and ensuring the proper execution of checks sent to it by Afnic;  
✓ complying with the holder's wishes, notably as regards the protection of their 
personal data. 
89. Afnic cannot be held responsible for the actions of the registrar. 
  
 
25 
Afnic Naming Policy - Version of 6 July 2026 
Chapter 5 - Rules relating to the holder of the 
domain name 
Article 5.1 - Eligibility of the holder of a domain 
name  
90. The registration or renewal of a domain name can be requested by any natural person 
residing and any legal person having its registered office or main establishment:  
✓  in one of the European Union member states;  
✓  or in one of the following countries: Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway or Switzerland.  
91. The domain name holder and the administrative contact must be reachable.  
92. As such, both the holder and the administrative contact must provide details of and 
keep in working order a telephone number and email address, as well as accurate 
information to establish their identities. While the domain name is active, they must 
ensure that such information is kept up to date at all times through their registrar.  
 
26 
Afnic Naming Policy - Version of 6 July 2026 
Article 5.2 - Administrative and technical 
contact 
93. The holder of a domain name must imperatively designate an “administrative contact” 
at the time of applying for registration and maintain this contact throughout the life of 
the domain name.  
94. The administrative contact may be the holder or, at the holder’s option, a third party 
(natural or legal person), including the holder’s registrar. 
95. Where the administrative contact is not the holder, the administrative contact has no 
rights to the domain name. 
96. The same eligibility rules applicable to the holder apply to the administrative contact.  
97. The holder of a domain name must imperatively designate a “technical contact” at the 
time of applying for registration and maintain this contact throughout the life of the 
domain name. 
98. The technical contact may be the registrar chosen by the holder when registering the 
domain name.  
99. The administrative and/or technical contacts are liable to be contacted and/or 
informed of any operations affecting the domain name. 
 
27 
Afnic Naming Policy - Version of 6 July 2026 
Article 5.3 - Responsibility of the holder 
100. Pursuant to the French Postal and Electronic Communications Code, domain names 
are registered and renewed on the basis of statements made by the applicant and 
under said applicant’s responsibility. 
101. The same applies to the use and exploitation of a domain name, which is the sole 
responsibility of its holder.  
102. It is the responsibility of applicants and holders to take all measures to comply with the 
terms and conditions of the Naming Policy and to duly take account of the information 
received from Afnic or the registrar in any form whatsoever (manual, online 
information, contractual information, FAQ, newsletters, etc.). 
103. It is the responsibility of the holder to choose a registrar accredited by Afnic. Afnic 
cannot be held responsible for false information or misleading statements.  
104. The holder shall hold Afnic harmless against any third-party claims, complaints, 
actions, and objections arising from or in connection with any domain name rights, 
registrations, uses, or transmissions of domain names. 
105. Consequently, the holder will be liable for the costs of any damages awarded 
against Afnic further to litigation, preliminary proceedings, or any other claims, 
including the costs incurred in defending its interests and counsel fees.  
  
 
28 
Afnic Naming Policy - Version of 6 July 2026 
Chapter 6 – Operations on a domain name  
Article 6.1 - Locking of a domain name 
106. The holder may apply to its registrar to benefit from the “domain name protection” 
option (FR lock). 
107. This option prevents any intervention on the domain name without the prior 
confirmation of the registrar and/or the holder of the domain name.  
108. This option does not hinder any domain name suspension, blocking and compulsory 
transfer operation required further to a court order, extrajudicial decision or 
unsuccessful verification procedure as defined below. 
Article 6.2 - Suspension of a domain name 
109. A domain name may be subject to a suspension procedure in the following cases:  
✓ a court decision ordering the suspension of the domain name and meeting the 
terms and conditions stipulated in the article entitled “Legal proceedings”;  
✓ the opening of an Alternative Dispute Resolution procedure managed by Afnic;  
✓ the opening of a verification procedure as referred to in the article “Powers of the 
Registry”. 
110. No application for suspension will be entertained in any circumstances other than 
those described above. 
 
29 
Afnic Naming Policy - Version of 6 July 2026 
111. The suspension of a domain name may lead to the cancellation of all the operations 
currently being processed by Afnic and the corresponding tickets, preventing any 
future operation request concerning the domain name. 
112. This operation does not alter access to the services connected with the domain name 
(website, email, etc.) . 
Article 6.3 - Blocking of a domain name 
113. A domain name may be subject to a blocking procedure in the following cases: 
✓ a court decision ordering the blocking of the domain name and meeting the terms 
and conditions stipulated in the article entitled “Legal proceedings”;  
✓ a verification procedure as referred to in the article “Powers of the Registry”;  
✓ on the order of the administrative authority responsible for competition and 
consumer affairs pursuant to section 2c) of Article L. 521-3-1 of the French Consumer 
Code; 
✓ at the request of the national authority responsible for information systems security, 
pursuant to Article L. 2321-2-3 of the French Defense Code  
✓ when the domain name is an orphan and the holder has not chosen a new registrar 
within thirty (30) days following notification of this need by Afnic. 
114. No application for blocking will be entertained in any circumstances other than those 
described above. 
 
30 
Afnic Naming Policy - Version of 6 July 2026 
115. The blocking of a domain name may lead to the cancellation of all the operations 
currently being processed by Afnic and the corresponding tickets, preventing any 
future operation request concerning the domain name. This does not prevent any 
technical operation of the domain name. 
116. Except where provisions to the contrary are made, the blocking is sustained for a 
maximum period of three months, renewable once. 
Article 6.4 - Voluntary transfer 
117. Domain names can be transferred, subject to compliance with the Naming Policy.  
118. Prior to any voluntary transfer operation, registrars must obtain the consent of both 
parties involved. 
119. In the event of liquidation or any other collective insolvency proceedings, the 
designated administrator has sole authority to give this consent.  
Article 6.5 - Compulsory transfer 
120. Afnic carries out compulsory transfers of domain names further to: 
✓ a transfer decision taken as part of an Alternative Dispute Resolution procedure 
managed by Afnic; 
✓ a transfer agreement in a mediation; 
✓ a court decision ordering the transfer of the domain name and meeting the terms 
and conditions stipulated in the article entitled “Legal proceedings”; 
 
31 
Afnic Naming Policy - Version of 6 July 2026 
✓ an order issued by  the administrative authority responsible for competition and 
consumer affairs pursuant to section 2c) of Article L. 521-3-1 of the French Consumer 
Code, for the benefit of the relevant competent authority; 
✓ a request of the national authority responsible for information systems security, 
pursuant to Article L. 2321 -2-3 of the French Defense Code , for the benefit of the 
relevant competent authority;  
✓ an order issued by the President of the authority for financial market (AMF) pursuant 
to paragraph IV of Article L621 -13-5 of the French Monetary and Financial Code, for 
the benefit of the relevant competent authority; 
✓ a corporate operation (merger, demerger, etc.) if the original holder is no longer 
able to carry out a voluntary transfer; 
✓ a situation where the original holder is no longer able to carry out a voluntary 
transfer and a legal or commercial link is established between the original holder 
and the new holder. 
121. The compulsory transfer procedure implies that the new holder in whose favour the 
decision has been awarded will carry out all the formalities and comply with the 
identification and eligibility checks. 
122. Insofar as the new holder is responsible for all technical and administrative fees 
incurred by a compulsory transfer, the new holder will be liable for recovering such 
costs from the former holder if necessary. 
 
32 
Afnic Naming Policy - Version of 6 July 2026 
Article 6.6 - Change of registrar  
123. Holders may change registrar subject to compliance with the contractual obligations 
binding both parties. 
124. Holders are free to choose a new registrar, which will then deal with the necessary 
formalities to effect the change. 
125. The new registrar must ensure that the change in no way affects ownership of the 
domain name. 
Article 6.7 - Orphan domain names 
126. If a registrar can no longer ensure the management of domain names for any reason 
whatsoever, including: 
✓ non-renewal of the registration agreement with Afnic or withdrawal of the 
registrar’s accreditation;  
✓ collective insolvency proceedings;  
✓ cessation of trading in the domain concerned;  
✓ termination of the registration agreement with Afnic, irrespective of the reason;  
the domain names administered by the said registrar will be considered to be “orphan 
domain names”, and holders must choose a new registrar. 
127. The registrar is responsible for notifying its customers and holders of the same in 
advance. 
 
33 
Afnic Naming Policy - Version of 6 July 2026 
128. If the registrar defaults on this obligation, Afnic will notify the holder and, where 
applicable, the administrative contact of the need to change registrar. 
129. This measure shall not be construed as a duty of care or supervision nor as a 
performance obligation incumbent on Afnic, but merely as a contribution provided 
under exceptional circumstances. 
Article 6.8 - Deletion of a domain name 
130. A domain name may be deleted: 
✓ at the request of the registrar; 
✓ further to a court decision ordering the deletion of the domain name and meeting 
the terms and conditions stipulated in the article entitled “Legal proceedings”;  
✓ further to a transfer decision taken as part of an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
procedure managed by Afnic; 
✓ further to a deletion agreement in a mediation; 
✓ further to an order of the administrative authority responsible for competition and 
consumer affairs pursuant to section 2c) of Article L. 521-3-1 of the French Consumer 
Code; 
✓ further to an order issued by the President of the authority for financial market (AMF) 
pursuant to paragraph IV of Article L621 -13-5 of the French Monetary and Financial 
Code; 
 
34 
Afnic Naming Policy - Version of 6 July 2026 
✓ after an unsuccessful verification procedure as referred to in the article “Powers of 
the Registry”; 
✓ further to an “orphan domain” procedure as referred to in the article entitled “Orphan 
domain names”. 
131. No application for deletion will be entertained in any circumstances other than those 
described above. 
132. Deletion becomes irreversible when the redemption period allowed for domain names 
deleted at a registrar's request has elapsed. In other cases of deletion, no redemption 
delay exists.  
133. During the redemption period, the domain name can be reactivated with t he same 
configuration. 
134. Once deleted, the domain name re-enters the public domain and can be registered by 
a new applicant.   
 
35 
Afnic Naming Policy - Version of 6 July 2026 
Chapter 7 - Dispute resolution 
135. As part of the resolution of disputes relating to domain names, Afnic may only 
intervene pursuant to a ruling handed down after legal proceedings or as part of an 
Alternative Dispute Resolution procedure managed by Afnic. 
Article 7.1 - Legal proceedings  
136. Afnic is in no way party to judicial proceedings relating to the domain names for which 
it is responsible.  
137. Since Afnic does not have the authority to take precautionary measures, these can 
only be implemented further to a court order fulfilling the requirements of this article.  
138. It is therefore the sole responsibility of the third parties concerned to take all the 
appropriate measures to stop any infringement they claim to their rights.  
139. Since Afnic is required to implement a court order taken as a result of legal 
proceedings, it is unnecessary for it to intervene or to ask it to intervene i n such 
proceedings. This being said, Afnic reserves the right to initiate a request for abuse of 
process as and when required, and to seek reimbursement of the expenses incurred by 
the same.  
140. Afnic satisfies this requirement under the following conditions:   
✓ After the earliest petitioner has notified Afnic, by bailiff, of an interim court decision 
in pursuance of Article 514 of the French Code of Civil Procedure and justification 
that the party has been notified of the decision;  
 
36 
Afnic Naming Policy - Version of 6 July 2026 
(Or)  
✓ After the earliest petitioner has notified Afnic, by bailiff, of an interim court decision 
in pursuance of Article 515 of the French Code of Civil Procedure and substantiation 
that the party has been notified of the decision, and upon presentation of any 
warranty ordered by the judge in pursuance of Article 517 of the French Code of 
Civil Procedure; 
(Or)  
✓ After the earliest petitioner has notified Afnic, by bailiff, of a final court decision that 
has the force of res judicata, pursuant to Article 500 of the French Code of Civil 
Procedure, and with due substantiation. For example, the substantiation may 
comprise the forwarding of a certificate of non-recourse or of the appeal decision. 
141. Afnic cannot respond to requests that fail to comply with these conditions and shall 
not be bound by letters, copies of summons or subpoena sent by applicants.  
142. Should a decision applied by Afnic be amended (further to withdrawal, appeal, 
reversal of judgement, etc.), Afnic will apply the new decision under the same 
conditions of service as set out above. 
143. Afnic shall not be held liable on any grounds whatsoever for the operations it performs 
pursuant to a court decision, or to a ruling handed down as part of an Alternative 
Dispute Resolution procedure managed by Afnic, and the applicant shall hol d Afnic 
harmless against any claims. 
 
37 
Afnic Naming Policy - Version of 6 July 2026 
Article 7.2 - Alternative Dispute Resolution 
procedures 
144. The holder of a domain name unreservedly undertakes to comply with the 
alternative disputes resolution procedures managed by Afnic, namely the Syreli and 
the PARL EXPERT procedures. The alternative disputes resolution procedures are 
available on the Afnic website. 
145. Afnic is not bound by any other alternative dispute resolution procedu re. 
  
 
38 
Afnic Naming Policy - Version of 6 July 2026 
Chapter 8 - Personal data and information  
Article 8.1 - Confidentiality 
146. The information and documents held by or sent to Afnic, other than those available 
via the “Whois” database, are considered to be confidential and shall not be disclosed 
to third parties. 
147. This provision does not preclude discovery ordered by the court or as part of a request 
by an authorised authority (French General Directorate for Competition Policy, 
Consumer Affairs and Fraud Control - DGCCRF, French Data Protection Authority - CNIL, 
the tax authorities, customs authorities, etc.). 
Article 8.2 - “Whois” database 
148. Afnic is responsible for the “Whois” database, consisting of all the data collected that 
are required to identify natural and legal persons holding domain names and domain 
name registrations. 
149. Afnic determines the technical conditions of operation and access to the related 
services; the conditions of use are set forth in a reference document entitled “Policy on 
publication of and access to information concerning .fr TLD registrations.”  
150. However, Afnic shall not be held liable for any technical problems relating to access 
to the database WHOIS or the functioning of the Internet, to suspended services arising 
from cases of force majeure or to maintenance operations. 
 
39 
Afnic Naming Policy - Version of 6 July 2026 
151. Afnic collects from registrars all types of identification data required to identify natural 
and legal persons holding domain names. 
152. The French State holds the rights to the “Whois” database; Afnic has a right of use of 
the “Whois” database. 
153. Afnic publishes the list of domain names registered every day by means of the “Whois” 
database. 
154. Afnic cannot be held liable for the abusive use by third parties of the identification 
data that it holds, with particular reference to the data held in the “Whois” database.  
155. Afnic reserves the right to update the database with information on the status of the 
domain name or qualification procedures. Thus when a qualification procedure results 
in the confirmation of the eligibility and/or reachability of the holder, this is entered on 
the corresponding holder contact object. 
156. The registrar can also update the “Whois” database at any time and make an entry 
on the holder contact object confirming the eligibility and/or reachability of its 
customer. 
157. Entries made by Afnic to the “Whois” database do not affect the legality or the 
compliance of the registration or its renewal. 
158. Domain names subject to a suspension of operations are identified as such in the 
Whois database.  
159. Blocked domain names are identified as such in the Whois database. 
 
40 
Afnic Naming Policy - Version of 6 July 2026 
Article 8.3 - Personal data 
160. The processing of personal data carried out for domain name operations falls under 
two categories of processing according to their main respective purposes:  
✓ The processing of personal data by the registrar for the provision of services on the 
domain names; 
✓ The processing of personal data by Afnic for the administration of the naming zone 
in question. 
161. It is up to both Afnic and the registrar to comply with the provisions resulting from the 
regulations in force applicable to the processing of personal data and, in particular 
those of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 
27 April 2016 applicable from 25 May 2018 (hereinafter the “General Data Protection 
Regulation” or “GDPR”), with particular respect to their relations with applicants or 
holders of domain names.  
162. Afnic and the registrar are each the data controllers for the processing they perform. 
Each is also the recipient of personal data processed by the other for the purposes of 
its own processing operations. 
163. The persons concerned by processing have personal rights (access, rectification, 
objection, etc.) that they can exercise with Afnic or the registrar as the case may be. 
Afnic or the registrar facilitates the exercise of these rights for the persons concerned.  
164. The personal rights and the procedures for the exercise thereof are set out by Afnic or 
the registrar on their respective websites with regard to the processing for which they 
are responsible. 
 
41 
Afnic Naming Policy - Version of 6 July 2026 
165. Both Afnic and the registrar provide data subjects, by all relevant means and media, 
with information and announcements on their respective processing of personal data  
in clear and simple terms guaranteeing the processing is fair and transparent.  
166. Afnic is empowered by authorisation No.2007-246 issued by the French Data 
Protection Authority (CNIL) to draw up an exclusion list, the purpose of which is to 
combat cybersquatting activities. 
Article 8.4 - Restricted publication 
167. The relevance of the “Whois” database requires that all information concerning the 
domain name holders, administrative and technical contacts, whether they  are natural 
or legal persons, must be published online and be accessible to all. 
168. In compliance with the request of the French Data Protection Authority (CNIL) and in 
application of the GDPR, when a domain name is registered by a natural person, the 
holder is covered by default by the “restricted publication” option.  
169. When this option is chosen, no personal data is made available online within the 
“Whois” database, only technical information (technical contact - registrar details and 
DNS servers). 
170. In the case of registration by a natural person, the “restricted publication” option does 
not apply to the technical contact. 
171. Nevertheless, it is possible to contact the administrative contact by email, although the 
contact details are not disclosed to the requesting parties.  
 
42 
Afnic Naming Policy - Version of 6 July 2026 
172. The “restricted publication” option is solely limited to registrations under top -level 
domain categories and under .name.fr domain names (currently closed to 
registration) registered by a natural person as the holder.  
173. Personal information required for domain name registrations and under restricted 
publication may be disclosed, however, by Afnic: 
✓ Further to a court order, court application or legal requisition, it being understood 
that there is no need to bring proceedings against Afnic in order to obtain such 
information; 
✓ At the request of an authority having a right of communication (DGCCRF, customs 
authorities, the Treasury, etc.); 
✓ In response to a request for the lifting of anonymity by means of a form entitled 
“Request for disclosure of personal data” accessible on the Afnic website. This 
lifting of anonymity is not, however, automatic, as Afnic reserves the right not to 
grant the request in view of the applicant’s status or the purpose of the request.  
  
 
43 
Afnic Naming Policy - Version of 6 July 2026 
Chapter 9 - Other provisions  
Article 9.1 - Agreement on evidence 
174. It is understood that emails sent by Afnic to registrars and/or holders have evidential 
value. 
175. The same applies to technical elements exchanged between the registrar and Afnic 
when processing applications and operations. 
176. In the event of a dispute concerning the date of receipt and/or date on which a 
request is processed, the information contained on Afnic's servers alone shall prevail.  
Article 9.2 - Language  
177. This Naming Policy has been drafted in French and in English.  
178. In the event of any difficulty in interpreting the terms of the naming policy, solely the 
French language version shall prevail between the parties. 
Article 9.3 - Governing law  
179. This Policy is governed by French law. French law shall apply, to the exclusion of any 
other. 
 
44 
Afnic Naming Policy - Version of 6 July 2026 
Article 9.4 - Force majeure 
180. In cases of force majeure or chance occurrences, Afnic may be required to suspend 
all or part of the application of this Policy.  
181. The following events are explicitly considered as force majeure or chance occurrences, 
including those usually upheld by case law in French courts and tribunals, namely:  
✓ War, riots, fire, internal or external strikes, lockouts, occupancy of Afnic premises, 
bad weather, earthquakes, flooding, damage by water, legal or governmental 
restrictions, legal or regulatory changes in forms of marketing, accidents of all 
kinds, illness affecting more than 10% of Afnic staff for a period of two consecutive 
months, lack of energy supply, partial or total shutdown of the Internet and, more 
generally, telecommunications networks both public and private, the blocking of 
roads and the impossibility to procure supplies and any other event beyond the 
control of the parties expressly preventing the normal performance of this 
Agreement. 
Article 9.5 - Intellectual property 
182. The performance of their duties does not grant Afnic or the registrar any intel lectual 
property rights to the domain names they manage. 
  
 
45 
Afnic Naming Policy - Version of 6 July 2026 
Chapter 10 – Transitional provisions  
183. As a transitional measure, the following specific rules shall apply to the .gf, .mq, and .gp  
top level domains, for which Afnic has been entrusted with management in 2026, 
starting from the date of the technical transfer of their management to Afnic’s 
infrastructure: 
✓ No new registration of domain names consisting of 1 or 2 alphanumeric characters 
will be permitted.  
✓ No new registration of domain names under existing naming zones within these 
top-level domains will be allowed, in accordance with the practices implemented 
by Afnic for the zones “.asso.fr”, “.com.fr”, or “.tm.fr” 1. Holders of domain names 
registered under naming zones within .gf, .mq, and .gp prior to the date of the 
technical transfer of these top-level domains to Afnic’s infrastructure may continue 
to use and renew them. 
184. This transitional period, intended to allow stakeholder consultations and public 
consultations on potential amendments to the Naming Policy concerning the .gp, .mq, 
and .gf domains, shall end no later than September 30, 2027. 
 
 
1 See Article 2.7 §43 of the Naming Policy. 